# Algorithm of Choice: Binary Search Algorithm
---
### I was unsure what exactly *"the algorithm"* was referring to, so I decided to choose to analyze the first algorithm given to me on Khan Academy.

### Language of Code: Javascript

### Can be applied to: Notifying users about their placement in a constantly changing waitlist, Notifying users about their placement/percentile in a competition, Notifying users about their running order number, etc.

⋅⋅⋅ The given algorithm finds at what index a certain number can be found in an array sorted in ascending order as well as uses the concept of Binary Search. The function doSearch is where the majority of the algorithm that finds the index of where a given number in an array is is. The function doSearch takes two inputs: the array (array) and the number which the function needs to find the index for (targetValue). The minimum index for the Binary Search is declared as zero and the maximum index for the Binary Search is declared to be the length of the array minus one since the first element in an array is stated to have an index of zero.  

⋅⋅⋅ The guess variable (to guess the index at which the number the index needs to be found for is found at) is declared and the guessNum variable (the number of guesses it takes to find at what index that certain number can be found at) is given a default value of zero. A while loop starts and will continue as long as the maximum index is greater than or equal to the minimum index. The variable guess is given the value of the average of the minimum and maximum index rounded down using Math.floor() since the program intends to narrow down at what index the certain number's at by dividing the inputted array in half and either working its way up or down the array or stopping entirely depending on whether array with guess for the index is less than, greater than, or equal to targetValue. Since the variable guess is assigned a new value (and, therefore, there is a new guess), guessNum is incremented by one. To verify that the program is working as intended, the variable guess is printed out to the console.

⋅⋅⋅ A conditional is set in place afterwards. If, when calling array with guess for the index is equal to the number intending to be found (targetValue), the variable guessNum will be printed (how many guesses it took to find the index of the desired number in the array) and the variable guess will be returned (the index the desired number was found at). If, when calling array with guess for the index is less than the number intending to be found (targetValue), the variable min is incremented by one so that the next time the while loop runs the variable guess will also increase and therefore choose the next value in the array when array with guess for the index is called. Finally, if, when calling array with guess for the index is greater than the number intending to be found (targetValue), the variable max is reduced by one so that the next time the while loop runs the variable guess will also decrease and therefore choose the previous value in the array when array with guess for the index is called. 

⋅⋅⋅ The while loop will keep on running until, as previously mentioned before, calling array with guess for the index is equal to the number intending to be found (targetValue). However, if the while loop isn't true (max is less than min), the function doSearch will return a value of -1 since it's not possible to find the index of a certain number in an array when the length of an array minus one is less than zero (or, in other words, when there is nothing in the array whatsoever). In order to call the function doSearch in the algorithm, an array needs to be declared as well as a variable to store the results of calling the function doSearch with a set of parameters. In order to see the value of said variable that's equal to the calling of the function doSearch with a set of parameters, said variable is printed to the console alongside a sentence via string concatenation. Finally, to also ensure that the function doSearch is working as intended, the .assertEqual() method is implemented to see if the result of doSearch given a set of parameters is equal to the presumed index the number desired to be found is at.

## What I Learned:
---
⋅⋅⋅ From using one of the activities from the Khan Academy Algorithms unit (more specifically, the Binary Search one,) and converting that activity from Javascript to Python, I learned that defining variables, functions, printing with string concatenation, and while loops as well as calling functions are relatively similar (nothing too out there; I was able to program in Javascript with little to no struggle despite not touching it for years) in both programming languages. However, I also learned that Javascript requires the usage of semicolons in order for its program to function, much like other programming languages (ex. Java, C++, etc.), and also that while loops and functions in Javascript are notated with parentheses and curly brackets. I also learned that variables in Javascript have to be declared before their usage by using the term 'var' before the desired variable name and that print statements in Javascript use the term "println" ("print line") instead of just "print". I learned that Javascript already has a built-in Math object (unlike Python which needs a math module imported) and that, in order to use the .assertEqual() method in Python, the unittest module has to be imported and the usage of .assertEqual() can be (doesn't always have to be) declared inside of a class that inherits from unittest.TestCase. 

⋅⋅⋅ Finally, I learned that in order to see the results of unit testing, I need to call unittest.main(). In terms of Binary Search, I learned that Binary Search is a more effective way of finding numerical values (certain indexes) in an array since it splits the array in half and moves up or down the array depending on how close the guessed index is to the actual number's index. Using Binary Search makes the program much more efficient and quicker at finding an answer for the index of a desired number in comparison to starting from the beginning of the array and moving from index to index one by one to find the index of a desired number.
